# Deserted-Game  
## About the Project  
This demo is similar to the Adobe Flash version I created found here: http://www.paigepeck.com/deserted/, but this version has more features and better handling of player's ship. It is designed using the Allegro game library found here: http://liballeg.org/. 

This version currently only has the player's ship and two different weapon sets. A system for adjusting the player's shield strength, weapon abilities, and engine power is a new feature. After enough power in one system, a special ability is made available. 


## Building Project  
1. INSTALL VISUAL C++ EXPRESS (FROM MICROSOFT WEB SITE)
First, install the Microsoft Visual C++ Express Edition 2010.  Just to make this clear:  this is the only acceptable edition of the compiler for this course.  That's because we will not have support for the 2012 version until we can gain the appropriate licenses and install the newer version in our labs.  The bottom line is this:  if you start working with the newer version of the compiler and if your program doesn't run on my computer, it will be your problem to solve!  (Note:  the full-blown Visual Studio is perfectly acceptable, as long as it is the 2010 version.)
(Note:  if you had a previous version of the express compiler, the installer will not replace it.  The 2010 version will simply install alongside it and both will still be usable.)
2. DOWNLOAD AND INSTALL ALLEGRO (FOR VISUAL STUDIO 2010)
Next, you will need to install the correct Allegro library files for your compiler.  The version you need to install is Allegro version 5.0.7, or a later version if available.
Don’t get too excited about all the “News” presented there about new versions.  Many times they show incremental updates that are really not useful for our purposes, because we will be using a version prepared for Windows and available in binary only.  In the left-hand frame you should click on Downloads, Latest version.
At the download page, you will first find versions that need to be compiled…no way!  Scroll down to the Binary version (only for Windows).  Under Site you want to select the option www.allegro.cc/files.
This is the site where you will find the files you need to install.  I wanted to show you the other sites, because they offer lots of valuable suggestions and help to the many Allegro programmers around the world.  I recommend you also create Bookmarks for all these sites.
Now, at the allegro.cc/files site, you should click the tab 5.0.  Under Windows Binaries select and download the following zip file for MSVC 10:
(Note:  at this writing, the latest stable version for Windows is 5.0.7.  So, the file references are to that version.  If a later version is listed as "Current version", feel free to use that, and be careful to use that version number in your settings, etc!)
(If you have the appropriate utility, feel free to download the "7z" file, but the zip file is really all you need.  Both contain the same installation files.)
Unzip the allegro-5.0.7-msvc-10.0.zip file to gain access to the Allegro library files.  This will yield three directories:  bin, include and lib.  Each one contains files that you need to copy to appropriate directories.  In previous versions the files were copied directly into the compiler's subdirectories.  However, now the strong suggestion is to copy them to an easily-discoverable directory elsewhere.  I strongly suggest you create a separate directory in your root directory called Allegro, and then use that as the location for all of the library files.  Here is the path as it exists on my hard drive:
1 of 41/17/2013 6:43 PM
InstallingandTestingAllegrohttps://onlcourses.tridenttech.edu/content/enforced/45213-CPT288_001...

C:\Allegro
Now, you need to copy everything from the above mentioned binary package into their proper locations.  I recommend you copy all of the directories, not move them.  If you move them, you can easily lose track of exactly what files you moved, and if they end up in the wrong folder, you have a problem!  Simply copy all three folders into your new Allegro directory.  Note that the include directory has a number of other directories inside it.  You want to keep that intact, so again just copy everything.  When you are done, the compiler will be able to find what it needs with a few project settings, which we will cover next.  Just to help make this clear, here is the final directory setup on my hard drive:
C:\Allegro\bin C:\Allegro\include C:\Allegro\lib
(And again the include directory has a bunch of directories within it.)
3. TESTING ALLEGRO WITH A REAL PROJECT
Start up the Visual Studio 2010 compiler.  Now, create a new empty solution and project:
Ø  File, New, Project… Ø  In the New Project dialog box, enter or select the following settings: o   In the templates column, under Visual C++ select the Win32 template and then "Win32 Project".  (Important:  we will not be using a Console Application for reasons explained later.  Be sure to select Win32 Project!) o   Change the project name to Test Project, and the solution name to Test Solution (or more appropriate names). o   Leave Create directory for solution checked.  Browse to the folder that you want to create your solutions o   Click OK. o   In the Win32 Application Wizard that appears, click on "Application Settings", and select "Empty project".  (If that wizard does not appear, then you made a mistake in creating the project.) o   Press Finish to create the empty solution and project.
Next, create a source code file.  In case you forgot how to do that, here are some explicit instructions:
Ø  the Solution Explorer window, right-click on Source Files, and select Add, New Item…. Ø  In the Add New Item dialog box, select the Code category and the C++ File (.cpp) template, and enter a good name for your code, like Test Program. Ø  Click Add and you will have a blank file called Test Program.cpp in which to write your program.
Before writing any source code at all, you need to set up several parameters for the compiler to be able to find Allegro.  You could put this off until later, but you might forget it then.  So, do it now (but make sure to create the blank .cpp file first!)
Ø  From the menus, select Project, Properties.  You should see a dialog entitled Test Project Property Pages (or whatever project name you gave it) Ø  Click the > sign or + sign in front of Configuration Properties to open it (if you have to) Ø  Click the > sign or + sign in front of C/C++, and then click on General.  In the Additional Include Directories entry (which should be blank), add C:\Allegro\include Ø  In the Configuration Properties, select Linker, General.  In the Additional Library Directories, enter C:\Allegro\lib Ø  Again in Configuration Properties, select Linker, Input.  The first setting, Additional Dependencies has quite a few entries already.  We will add one more.  Click in front of the other entries and add the following file:  allegro-5.0.7-monolith-md-debug.lib, followed by a semicolon.  (IMPORTANT NOTE:  in the Bldg 920 labs the software is a bit older and contains the "5.0.5" version of this file.  If you try running your project there, you will simply need to change that version number to get it to compile.) Ø  Once more in Configuration Properties, select Debugging.  For the Environment setting, enter the following: PATH=C:\Allegro\bin;%PATH%   That results in adding that path to the PATH variable used in your system.  You could set this variable through your Control Panel, but the update needs to be made to each of your projects.  If not, then you will have trouble compiling in any of the Bldg 920 labs that do not have the PATH variable updated (as well as my computer!) Ø  Click OK and the project settings are good to go.
Make very sure to do this for every project you work on. You should make up a short checklist to accomplish for every time you start on a new project!
